[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When we started years
ago, after "What the Bleep"
and people started waking up
to the idea that subjective
changes, or subjective mind,
produces objective results
in the external world, the most
common question we got was,
how do you do this?
How do you make those changes?
If something's going
on inside of us,
and it's producing some
result outside of us,
what is that process that's
going on inside of us
that we could begin to measure?
And if it happens
once, it's an incident.
If it happens twice,
it's a coincidence.
But if you start seeing it
happen three and four and five
and six and seven times, now
you're looking at a trend.
You're looking at a pattern.
And anything that's
repeatable is science.
>> Chloe, where's your ear?
Yeah.
Where's your head?
Where's your mouth?
Where's your nose?
That's your eye.
Our daughter is
about to turn one.
And she was
exclusively breastfed
until she was about six
or seven months old.
So we didn't know that she
had any sort of allergies
or anything like that.
But she had eczema
for all this time,
and we didn't really know why.
Are you hungry?
[LAUGHTER]
Come on.
Let's go.
And about seven
months old, we decided
to start introducing
some formula.
And the first night that
we tried to give it to her,
she kept batting it away
and batting it away.
And just shortly thereafter,
she vomited, and then
her face began to swell,
and her ears began to swell,
and she was covered in
a rash from head to toe.
And we went to
the emergency room
and found out that she had a
really severe dairy allergy.
The eczema that
she was presenting
was actually from
foods that she was
getting passed through my
milk all along the way,
before she ever
even had the dairy.
>> In 2007, my husband, he
committed suicide in jumping
off a building in Amsterdam.
And after that, I was actually
a whole year stressed out,
in pain, emotionally upset.
I was angry.
I didn't know how to
continue my life without him
and the kids not
having a father.
For three or four
months, I couldn't sleep.
And then I started
using alcohol.
I started drinking
two glasses of wine
so I could get into sleep.
But in the morning
when I would wake up,
the whole emotional state in
which I was in at that time
was there, immediately
popped up again.
I couldn't relax.
But I kept on going.
And then one year later, a
Friday, I was at my work.
I was tired.
I was stressed out.
And then from one
moment and the other,
I was talking to two
colleagues, and then I
couldn't stand up anymore.
I couldn't walk.
[SIREN]
And they called immediately
emergency number.
And then I was taken
to the hospital.
And I was in the
hospital for a few weeks.
They didn't know what
was really going on.
They called it an
autoimmune reaction.
And I was released after six
weeks out of the hospital
without knowing the cause
of why I couldn't walk,
without any really good
treatment, because they
couldn't find the cause.
>> I was in two wars-- the
Persian Gulf War and the Iraq
War.
I found out I had PTSD.
And the VA's
response to that was
to use all these
different medications.
And having a doctor
of pharmacy degree,
I knew that that would
just more or less
put a Band-Aid on what I was
going, through that I really
needed to get to the core trauma
to deal with those experiences
that I did experience.
And so I wanted to find
a non-pharmacological way
of dealing with the
emotions I was feeling.
>> So we took her off all of
the solids that she was eating
and slowly started to introduce
foods one by one to figure out
what she was allergic to.
I mean, it was pretty
much everything.
We felt really responsible
and felt really bad.
I did, because I'm shoving
these things into her body,
not knowing that she's
sensitive to them.
So just a lot of conflicting
emotions, a lot of guilt,
a lot of worry as a mom.
It was a constant
process of saying,
OK, well, I'm just going to try
a little bite of strawberry.
And so there was all that
hope that would build up,
and then she would
have a reaction again.
And so then there was
the guilt afterwards,
like what was I thinking
trying it again?
When we went to the
doctor, they talked so much
about her limitations.
And that's just
not a word that you
want to hear when it
comes to your kiddo.
>> I lost everything
in that year.
I was disabled.
I couldn't walk.
I lost my husband.
I went really down.
I got ulcers in my mouth.
I got the ulcers in
the certain epithelium
of the mucus membranes in
the mouth and esophagus.
I was in constant pain.
And that was actually
the reflection
of how I felt inside.
I was in pain.
In January 2011, I got the
diagnosis of esophagus cancer.
I had two options--
chemo or operation.
And the operation, I said,
I'm not going to take.
I just try first the chemo.
Maybe that will help.
From the moment they
gave me the first chemo,
my heart rate went up
to 200 and something.
I felt nauseous.
I felt so awful.
Then I actually at that moment
already wanted to pull it out.
But they told me to keep
it going in because that
would be the best thing to do.
But two hours later, I
said, I want this out.
I want this out of my body.
So then they pulled
the infusion out,
and I walked out
of the hospital.
And I said, I'm not going
to go back there anymore.
>> If you keep the brain
sustained in the high level
of emergency mode, and the
adrenal chemicals are running
in the body, the brain wave
patterns that are created are
no longer in rhythm.
They are no longer synchronized.
They are dyssynchronized, or
disintegrated, or disorderly.
And that type of disorderly
pattern in the brain
sends a disorderly signal down
the central nervous system
and causes disorderly messages
to the rest of the body.
>> I had one huge thought, since
2007, I was carrying around--
my husband should not
have committed suicide,
and he should not have
left his children alone.
So these thoughts actually
created the stress
in my body, the
anger, the sadness.
Like, my god, how could
he have done this?
>> If you look at the depression
that we're seeing as a society,
as you're seeing pharmaceutical
companies and all
the anti-depressant medication,
there's a crying out there
in the world right now
that people are in pain.
>> I think that
transformation is teachable.
And I think that a new
model has to be developed.
My intention in
this work is really
to make it so simple and
provided in a language that
isn't based on tradition, that
isn't based on culture, that
isn't based on religion, because
I feel like those things tend
to divide people.
>> What I'd like to invite
us to consider is to consider
well-being as a skill.
One of the important
components of well-being
is resilience, the capacity
to effectively cope
with adversity.
Adversity happens.
And we are all
subject to adversity
at some point or
other in our lives.
And how we respond
to that adversity
is a key attribute
of well-being.
>> So if I'm looking at
resilience as being the aspect
of what we'll call
my ebb and flow,
that I have the ability just
naturally to flow in the river.
You naturally go
around the rock.
You naturally flow
into this tributary.
>> And it turns out that we can
actually learn to become more
resilient.
We can learn to recover more
quickly from a stressful event.
The evidence that we
have before us today
really leads us inevitably
to this conclusion.
And if we all actually took
this conclusion seriously,
I think it would propel a
national and global movement
for us all to take
more responsibility
for our own well-being.
>> We are going to
start at 6 o'clock--
in the morning.
[LAUGHTER]
You can sleep in at home.
Bring your body here.
You'll be so happy that you did.
And always remember,
when you wake up
in the morning at
5:00, or 5:15, or 5:30,
everything that your mind
is telling you is a lie.
Just remember that.
It is all a lie.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Everything we do
will affect our brains.
The environments that we're
exposed to, the way we behave,
the way we comport ourselves
all affects our brains
all the time.
Our brains are
constantly being shaped.
And if we take
more responsibility
for the shape of our brains,
if we instill qualities
of equanimity and of
generosity and of kindness,
our brains will change because
we adopt these mental habits.
And through that
change, we can produce
enduring changes,
enduring transformations,
in our experience and behavior.
And the best ways
that we're learning
that we can change
these habits is
through meditation practices.
>> You don't have to
be a Buddhist monk.
You don't have to have
40,000 hours of meditation.
All you have to do
is understand how
to hit the tennis
ball, that there's
certain steps you have to go
through to hit the golf ball.
There's certain steps
you have to go through
to learn how to knit.
Now, there's four
kinds of meditations.
There's a standing meditation,
a walking meditation, a sitting
down meditation, and a
lying down meditation.
We're going to begin to practice
the same process that you're
doing sitting.
But you're going to
stand up, and you're
going to raise your
energy in your body.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When I first heard
about meditation,
I didn't believe that that would
work for me because I had these
ADD, hypervigilant tendencies.
My alma mater at the
University of Wisconsin
showed brain scans
from the Buddhist monks
and how they actually
had a control study where
they brought individuals
off the street
and showed them that they
could destress and calm.
>> When I first met His
Holiness the Dalai Lama in 1992,
he challenged me.
And he said, look, we've been--
we being scientists-- have
been using the tools
of modern neuroscience
to study qualities like fear
and anxiety and depression.
Why can't we use those same
tools to study kindness
and compassion?
>> He looked at all of
us young scientists.
And he looked at us, and
he pointed his finger.
And when he points
his finger at you,
it's hard to just dismiss
it as nothing, no big deal.
He said, I will be
watching all of you.
You are responsible for reducing
suffering in this world.
This is where this
mindful revolution,
or inner revolution,
is happening.
It's happening now.
And we need
scientists to continue
to investigate, to show
the evidence for how
these practices can
be transformative,
to be the best
human you can be--
not only for yourself, but
for all the people around you.
So one of the most
amazing things
about this
mindfulness revolution
has been how it's
actually pushed the field
of neuroscience forward.
People in the
neuroscientific discipline
weren't thinking about
what a resting mind was
and what it does.
The resting mind was used
as a baseline for everything
else that was of interest.
But now what we're realizing
is that the resting mind
is actually a quite busy mind.
>> People are hovering at
a level like this, I think,
just from all this environmental
input and stressors and things
you're trying to modulate.
It's so important to just
take it down a notch.
You're already here.
You're like a pressure cooker.
There's not much room.
So if your baseline
is down here, yeah,
you can handle the
stressors up and down.
And you go back down
there, and you're cool.
But if it just adds up
and adds up and adds up,
you can't tolerate very much.
I'm very, very
pleased to be here
and be able to share some
of this research with you.
So we call it mindfulness-based
cancer recovery.
And essentially, we train them
in principles of mindfulness,
as well as we do moving
mindfulness or gentle yoga.
It's a clinical service.
It's open to all cancer
patients and family members
that come through our program.
When people have a traumatic
or difficult experience
like cancer, sometimes
it's a catalyst
for growth and transformation
and finding more sense
of meaning and purpose in life.
And the program seemed to
have that effect as well.
People reported being more
spiritual, meaning they
have a sense of
connection with something
larger than themselves.
We've been very successful
with this particular program
over the last 15 years of
amassing enough evidence,
that now cancer centers
all around the world
are offering this program
based on that evidence.
>> So that's one thing that's
really great about the field is
that it's opening new doors
of methodology and insight
into how the mind works.
>> Bonk.
[LAUGHTER]
So we had learned
these meditations.
We went home, and
Chloe fell asleep on me
for one of our naps.
And I just eat that time
up of getting to hold her
and be close to her.
So instead of putting
her in her crib,
I just let her stay there on me.
And while she was
on me, I meditated.
And I really just got into this
overwhelming state of love.
I didn't even start with
the intention of thinking,
oh, I'm going to
heal my daughter.
It was much purer than that.
There wasn't a lot of
intention besides just
this overwhelming love I
was feeling connecting skin
to skin with her.
Next thing you know,
through the meditation,
I was just in tears and thinking
about the abundance of hairs
on her head, and the
abundance of blades of grass
that we've sat upon
and played together,
and the abundance
of times that I've
gotten to rock her to sleep
and to utter her name.
And I just was
awash with emotions.
>> When you're truly present,
you forget about time
and space.
When you're truly
present, the hindbrain,
which is the factory for
all those stress hormones,
settles down, and
the forebrain begins
to silence the
rest of the brain.
So you're not distracted
by anyone or anything
or any extraneous stimulation.
It's a volume control.
So getting people beyond
their identity as a body,
beyond their identity as the
people they know and the things
they own, the places they
live-- getting them beyond
their association and
their identification with
the external world or present
reality and getting beyond
time--
is a skill.
You're journeying
back to source.
And if you can't get
excited about that,
I'm going to ask you what
you do get excited about.
[APPLAUSE]
The same level of
mind that you have
been living from
every single day
in your conscious and
unconscious reactions
to your external
world is not the mind
that's going to produce
transformation in this room.
And you have to get greater
than the habituations
neurologically and biologically
in your brain and body.
You have to transcend your
identity that's connected
to your external world.
And you have to literally
lose track of time.
And I call it digging
deep, because you reach
a point where you hit a wall.
You reach a point
where you're caught
in a neural circuit
that's going around,
and you can't address
it from the circuit.
You can't change a computer
program by being the computer
program, can you?
You have to get into
the operating system,
and you need an operator
to change the program.
And that operator
is not your body.
The operator is not the program.
The operator is not the ego.
>> So when we drop in the
meditation, we drop the body.
We drop the physical.
We go into that
deep subconscious
mind, the operating system.
And what happens is the Divine
is waiting for us, saying
come this way.
It wants us to interact.
Mystics, shamans,
healers, sages--
they step into that altered
state of consciousness.
It's our divine right
as human beings.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Now, we will be randomly
selecting people in real time
for meditations, where we'll
pull you out, and we'll say,
it's time for you to
get your brain mapped.
And we're going to measure
your brain in real time
during a meditation.
We're going to see
what's taking place.
And when a person is
struggling and when
a person has transformation, we
want to see it in real time--
how different parts of the
brain are talking well with one
another, how the front is
talking to the back, how
the left is talking
to the right, how
different compartments are
all of a sudden synchronizing
and holding hands.
And what syncs together
links together.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And that level of
orderliness that's created
causes the brain to function
in an integrated and holistic
fashion.
And you start to feel more
like yourself than you've
felt in a long time.
And that level of coherence
sends a very organized signal
down your central
nervous system.
And all of a sudden,
all other systems
begin to organize
themselves as well.
[CLICKING]
So then as you start
opening your focus
and sensing space
and nothing, as you
begin to unfold into
that infinite, vast void,
the longer you can linger
there as an awareness
and you're touching and
tuning into a frequency
called the unified field,
which its signature
is order and rhythm,
which is wholeness,
sooner or later
coherence is going
to begin to consume incoherence.
And all of a sudden,
the brain will begin
to become more integrated.
[CLICKING]
The brain waves begin to
change from beta brainwaves,
high beta aroused
state, into alpha.
And in alpha, all of a
sudden the inner world
starts becoming more real
than the outer world.
And as your brain
waves slow down,
all of a sudden
you're connecting
to that autonomic
nervous system that
wants to just do one thing--
create order and
balance in your body.
>> He didn't know
anything about me.
And he knew that I had
PTSD, that I had ADD,
that I had the
hypervigilance, everything.
He could tell that
by my brain map.
And like I said, it
was kind of shocking.
But it also gave
me a lot of hope,
because I knew that
through this brain mapping,
I could measure my progress.
And I actually had the
objective measurements.
The brain maps showed me I could
actually go into my meditations
and use that information
in my meditations
to help starting to heal myself.
>> And all of sudden, you see
the front of the brain talking
to the back of the brain.
We've seen this so many times.
You see the right side
of the brain talking
to the left side of the brain.
And all of a sudden,
you see the brain
starting to move into
a more holistic state.
And those brain
waves become highly
coherent when that happens.
That energy moves
right into the heart.
And all of a sudden,
the person starts
to feel connected to
something greater.
>> I made a decision to
start meditating daily.
And I started the work--
first on my own,
and then I started
talking with people about it.
And they were supporting me.
I would start meditating
in the evening around 9:30.
And then I would sit with it
till I really felt I'm whole.
I'm having more energy.
I'm joyful.
I'm happy person.
I can do this.
It will work.
All these changes that
I had to tell myself--
if not the chemo, then why
not try to heal myself?
>> So we're stepping into
the practicum and the skill.
And it's one thing to
study rodents in a changing
environment.
It's another thing
studying people
changing their internal states
and being able to sustain
those internal states.
So that's the
practicum that leaves
the philosophical behind.
So you have philosophy or
theory, and you initiate it.
That initiation then
should lead to some type
of mastery or skill.
>> So what happens internally
when the energy hits the head,
there's light.
There's a very bright light.
You no longer need your vision.
But because you're human,
you're still trying to see.
It's really hard to
describe what happens.
There's a lot of light.
You can feel the current.
You can feel the blast.
You can feel the movement.
But you can't really
put a name to it.
>> They are having an inward
experience that's greater than
their trauma, their
diagnosis, their fear.
Whatever is happening
between their ears
is more real than
anything that's happened
in their external environment.
Her sympathetic nervous
system has switched on.
And instead of switching on
like being chased by a predator,
it's taking all that
energy stored in the body,
and it's driving
it up to the brain.
And when it goes on, all
of a sudden the brain
goes into gamma.
And she's aroused from
the inner experience.
But it's not from a
predator or from a danger.
It's from the Divine.
>> On one hand, you
feel uncomfortable
because it's unfamiliar.
But on another
hand, it was a joy.
You know that everything around
you and inside you is alive,
and it's full of love--
just unconditional,
beautiful love.
>> Imagine, 750
people in the room,
they're overcoming themselves.
And they start
activating this center--
their center of oneness, their
center of wholeness-- and as
the heart starts
getting coherent
and it starts creating elevated
emotions like gratitude,
people are feeling the
emotions of their future
that begin to create
holism and oneness.
If the environment
signals the gene,
and the end product of an
experience in the environment
is called an emotion,
when you embrace
these elevated emotions,
you are literally
selecting and instructing new
genes ahead of the environment.
And we are going to
turn on new lights
and turn off old
lights, signaling
new genes and new ways.
>> During meditation,
my heart just opened up.
I was sobbing with joy.
And I was having these
waves and waves and waves
of love and gratitude.
>> I can only describe
it as like a bolt,
like a lightning bolt of
energy arrived in my heart.
It didn't come up through
the center or down.
It just came out through my
heart and up through my head.
>> I was very conscious of the
fact that I should don't expect
to see anything.
And then all of a
sudden, out of nowhere,
I started feeling this
weird, strange shaking
all over my body.
But it was getting stronger
and getting stronger.
>> And there are tears of
joy rolling down their face.
They are being
baptized by the Divine.
And when that occurs,
they feel so whole
and so in love with life and
so in love with themselves,
it's impossible to want.
How can you want
when you feel whole?
You feel like you
have everything.
And that's the moment the magic
happens over and over again.
And there is a biological,
neurological, genetic upgrade
in that person.
And when that occurs, you will
feel so connected and so whole,
you no longer
experience separation.
Imagine the heart is
in super coherence.
And when that heart
starts to beat in rhythm,
and they are sustaining it,
all of a sudden, that field
starts to expand.
That energy starts to become
very coherent, like dropping
a pebble in water--
after pebble, after pebble--
and it's creating this wave.
>> I don't know
how to describe it.
But it was this amazing energy
just went [DEEP EXHALE] right
through me.
It was this crystal blue
white light that I saw.
Within seconds, my
ear clears, and I
can hear for the
first time clearly
out of my ear in three years.
>> I went back to
the neurologist.
And he said, Sue, out of the
eight lesions that you had,
most of them have
completely disappeared,
and the rest have
significantly diminished.
And that was in nine months
with no medical intervention.
That was the first time he'd
ever seen it with somebody
who hadn't taken any drugs.
>> We saw people with
Parkinson's disease that had
tremors, intention tremors,
pill rolling, shuffling gait.
Parkinson's disease
is deficiency
in dopamine in the brain.
When there's not enough
dopamine in the brain,
the upper motor neurons
can't communicate well
with each other.
And it causes involuntary
tremors in the body.
Try as you may to control
it with your conscious mind,
you can't.
So then what do you
see in the brain?
You see all this
red, which means
the brain is over-activated.
It's over-stimulated.
So then that over-activated
energy in the brain
is sending an overactive
signal in the body.
And the body is experiencing
tremors, or spastic paralysis.
So take a look at this
person three days later.
Do you see much red
in that brain at all?
There's no drugs.
There's no surgery.
There's no electrodes
placed in the brain.
They basically change
their state of being.
Now, in order for that
person to do that,
they can't do it with
their conscious mind.
They've got to get beyond
their conscious mind
and get into the
operating system where
true transformation
can take place.
>> I got a gastroscopy,
and it was gone.
The cancer was gone.
I don't know what did it.
Just meditated-- I just
was there every day with it
and seeing myself like
I'm a healthy person.
I'm fit.
I'm happy.
I have a good life.
I earn money again.
And I'm healthy-- that
was my main thing.
But I knew that I
had to be healthy
up here and especially
the emotions,
because they are
sometimes so strong.
And the environment
is also like, oh.
If you have cancer,
the environment
reacts like you
have cancer and wow.
And they treat you differently.
And you even go and react
like that-- oh, I have cancer.
At one point, I stopped.
I told nobody anymore anything
about the condition I was in.
I stopped also talking
about my husband's suicide,
because I decided to not go
there anymore emotionally.
And that helped
me to heal myself.
>> So we did this series of
meditations over a couple days.
And one day I just turned
to Brian and I said,
I just feel like
Chloe is healed.
I just had this
mother's intuition.
99% of me believed it.
But there was still this 1% of
me that was really tentative.
So we just started
with some of the ones
that she had had the
lesser sensitivities to.
And then just day by day,
we did it really naturally.
We didn't force it.
It was with each meal.
We just lived our lives.
Chew, chew, chew.
And so I tried it.
I was making some
eggplant lasagna
and gave her a little bit
of cream sauce on my finger.
And of course she loved
it, because it's delicious.
She kept eating more
and more and more.
I was watching-- not
really watching, waiting
for a reaction, but just
more watching, just ready
to wipe away that 1% of doubt.
And nothing happened.
She just enjoyed the food.
And there we were
in the kitchen,
a family making a meal together
and eating a meal together.
And it was a miracle.
Do you want a
drink, wash it down?
>> My old thinking was that all
the things that happened to me,
I was a victim of circumstance
or of other people.
We, as a society
as a whole, we're
always stuck in the victimhood
of what happened to it.
And not to say that
those traumas weren't bad
and that they weren't hurtful.
But to be able to come
out to the other side
and see for myself, wow, that
has made me who I am today--
those traumatic experiences
made me the man that I am today.
>> I was a victimized person.
And I decided to not
be victimized anymore.
I decided at that point
I can go on living.
I can heal my life.
And I finally will
enjoy my life again.
>> Leo, come here.
Come on.
Come on, good boy.
In my meditations, I
thank my fear, my anxiety.
And I thank it for keeping me
alive, but telling it today
it doesn't serve me.
So that's huge in meditation,
to be able to get out of myself,
get out of my body,
and use my brain
to not give me the adrenaline
rushes that I'm so used to.
And of course, my body rebels.
It wants those fixes.
It wants that adrenaline.
It wants the fear.
It wants that
because that's what
it's used to-- so
using the meditation
and actually visualizing
what it would
feel like not to have that.
And so it's rewiring
my brain to get
into that mode
instead of the mode
that I have been raised in.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The research in mindfulness
and the brain is teaching us
that through our own intentional
efforts we can actually change
our brain through
purely mental activity.
And this is kind of amazing,
because it suggests that we all
have the capacity to shape
our own brains in ways
that may be beneficial.
>> And the research shows that
the more focused the person
is-- in other words, they can
keep their mind on a single
task--
guess what it's
directly related to?
Happiness.
Joy.
And the more fractured
a person focuses,
the more they are living
by those stress hormones
and the more fractured
and confused they
are in their life.
>> Everything that I was
suffering of, which was
a physical condition
and emotional condition,
a mental condition-- because
it's a three-dimensional thing
that's going on--
is that it's changed.
I walk again.
I have enough muscle power
to walk without crutches.
I bike again.
I do all the things I love.
I work again.
I look after my kids.
And I'm a happy person.
>> OK.
Let's do it.
You ready?
(SINGING) The itsy-bitsy
spider went up
the water spout to ask the
universe, what's it all about?
The stars in the sky
said, life is great.
So the itsy-bitsy spider
went home to meditate.
[LAUGHTER]
Yea, we sang the spider song.
I think the coolest
thing has just been
the joy quotient in our lives.
You think about this process
of manifestation and law
of attraction, all
this kind of thing.
And you think about things and
stuff, and I want more wealth,
and I want this.
We're normal people.
We want that stuff too.
But it's beyond that.
We have just been more
joyful as a family
and just more present with
each other and more connected.
I mean, every day we are
living our best lives.
That is just--
that's invaluable.
And I wholly attribute it to
this time that we're spending.
We get up every morning
at 5:00 AM together.
And we sit side by side.
And we spend that time in
meditation before Chloe
gets up.
And we've gotten ourselves
into this state of mind
that's blissful and joyful.
And we go into her room,
and we sing, and we dance.
And we have this whole
fun wake-up routine.
(SINGING) Good morning,
morning, morning.
Good morning.
It's time to start your day.
And you see it in her face,
just to start the day like that.
Imagine starting your life--
every day, starting your
day with that much joy,
with singing and
dancing and hugging
and connecting and
smiling and just
pouring your love
all over one another.
And to me, that's the miracle.
>> We owe it to ourselves to go
out and try it and experience
it.
And once you've
experienced it and feel,
like Kayla was saying,
the joy and the love
that you can't help but
have and experience,
that you won't want it to stop.
>> I've changed dramatically.
I went from this deep,
dark depression to now
having a zest for life.
I am not as
hypervigilance anymore.
I don't use the sleeping
pills that I used to.
I now use meditation.
Is everything rosy today?
No.
I have things that
happen to me daily.
But it's how I deal with
them, and that is the key.
>> And when you're in that
state, guess what happens?
You go from selfish, driven
by the hormones of stress,
to selfless.
And all of a sudden, that
heart of yours begins to open.
And the innate capacity in
you to give, to take care of,
to nurture, to serve
is who we really are.
And all of a sudden,
you create a community
of people that are in
love with each other.
And they understand
the way that we
survive is in cooperation,
no longer in separation.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Can you turn out the light?
Boop!
You did it.
[LAUGHTER]